---
title: Parcelli Jepchirchir
photo: /assets/img/illustration.svg
tags: far away too
featured: false
author: Nobody Knows
author_photo: /assets/img/profile.svg
excerpt_separator: <!--main-->
---

Far far away, behind the word mountains, far from the countries Vokalia and Consonantia, there live the blind texts. Separated they live in Bookmarksgrove right at the coast of the Semantics, a large language ocean

<!--main-->

If I were to choose a word to describe my bioinformatics internship at International Centre for Insect Physiology and Ecology, that word would be eye-opening! 

I joined the mentorship and incubation program on 3rd June 2021 with the hope of getting to learn more about bioinformatics that was just slightly introduced to me in my undergraduate. I 

never fancied wet lab as I regarded it as boring and so immediately after graduating, I knew it was time to find a new path that is exciting and fulfilling for me. I sought guidance from Dr. Caleb, a Bioinformatician at icipe. I got to learn about the amazing opportunity to be mentored and  learn  more  about  bioinformatics,  and  successfully  applied  for  the  Bioinformatics Incubation and Mentorship Program. 

My bioinformatics journey began with an onboarding activity where we were introduced to the program, how it will run and some rules to abide by. We were then asked to put pen on paper concerning the short-term and the long-term goals together with a road map to achieving them. Writing down my goals ensured that I never lost sight of the bigger picture and helped me get my vision clearer. 

The first week, I got to learn about collaborative tools like slack for communications and Git and GitHub for version control. The second week, I got introduced to Bioinformatics where I learned  Next-generation  sequencing,  biological  databases,  genomics,  phylogenetics,  Open Science,  and  project  management.  Then  came  the  week  to  learn  Python,  Bash,  and  R programming  languages  which  I  had  never  encountered  before.  I  was  a  bit  scared  of programming because of the notion that it was hard. At first, I was only concerned with getting the code running and then slowly into knowing what the code does to my data. 

There was no better way to conquer my fear of programming than through learning by problem- solving. I got to reproduce a research paper on RNA-Seq analysis with my partner Dorcus Namikelwa. This experience enabled me to hone my problem-solving skills together with collaborative  skills.  As  I  completed  my  first  bioinformatics  project,  I  felt  a  sense  of accomplishment,  self-confidence,  and  deep  satisfaction.  It  was  then  that  I  realized, bioinformatics is the career for me. With the newfound enthusiasm for bioinformatics, I was eager to do much more for the mini-project. 

The beauty of the internship was the collaborative spirit and the positive environment created by the great team at icipe. As I did my mini-project on the identification of Fungal Species from Bee pollen metagenomics data, I would occasionally encounter code errors and would seek  help  from  the  EANBit  fellows  who  were  always  ready  to  help  us.  Learning  in  an environment with no judgment and great support from my supervisors Festus Nyasimi and Dr.Caleb together with the EANBit fellows, enabled me to grow my bioinformatics skills together with self-confidence. 

I am grateful to my supervisors, the EANBiT fellows for mentoring me and enabling me to discover my niche, which is bioinformatics. I now continue with my pursuit of gaining mastery in Bioinformatics and to eventually be able to solve the disease burden in Africa. Cheers!
